Now when it comes to Docker Containers,
you can create them by writing a Docker file
that defines how your Container
so how this package should be set up.
And you always start by defining a base image
as it's called on which your Container is based.
So in this case here, that for example
would be an image that has node js installed
on top of some Linux operating system.
I have some environment variables to find
for this Container.
And then I have some steps that are always
executed when this Container is prepared
and which give me an environment
in which I can run this application whenever I want to
on whichever machine I want to
as long as that machine supports Docker.
But I do have a complete course
about Docker and Containers where you can learn all
about this Container thing
and where you can dive much deeper.
This is not a Container course, and
if it doesn't make any sense to you at all
you can skip this section
because GitHub Actions supports Containers
but you don't have to use them.
But using Containers can have various advantages because
with GitHub Actions you can run your jobs and their steps
on "Just the Runner" machine, which you define.
That's what we did thus far in this course
but you can also run them inside
of a Container defined by you.
And the advantage of using Containers instead
of "Just the Runner" machine as we did it thus far, is that
with a Container, since you defined the entire environment
you have full control over the environment
over the installed software
and the setup steps that were performed
for setting up that environment.
If you are running your jobs and their steps directly
on the Runner, then you are stuck with that Runner.
And that, for example, means that you have an environment
with a predefined operating system version
and a predefined list of software.
I did show you this information about the pre-installed
software earlier, and it depends on which runner
you are using.
And depending on that choice, you then have various tools
and services pre-installed and running on that runner
machine provided by GitHub.
Now, often that maybe all the software you need
but sometimes some software or setting might be missing
or you might have a version that you don't wanna work with.
Now of course, you can always go to a Workflow
and add a new step where you install some extra software.
That's always an option, but when using Containers
you could create such a predefined environment separately
from your GitHub Actions Workflow definition file
and you could reuse the container in different workflows
wherever you need that environment.
So that could be the advantage
of using such a Container that you can build
your own clearly defined environment in which
your code will run or will be built
or tested or whatever you want to do with it.
Now as mentioned, GitHub Actions supports Docker Containers
and you can simply run Docker Containers on top
of those Runners provided by GitHub and by GitHub Actions.
Your containerized job is then simply hosted by the Runner
so it's running on that Runner machine
but in an isolated environment.
The environment defined by you in the Container definition
and the steps, and that's the important part
the steps of the job are then executed inside the Container.
And they're also is another feature called Services
or Service containers, which we will also explore later
in this section, which allows you to run extra services
in Containers that might be needed by your main build job
or by the main thing you might be doing in your job
and it will become clearer later when also dive
into a concrete example.